# CourseRegistrationSystem
This is a university course registration system in Java. 

Based on the design of my course selection system shown in the diagram above, I first created one interface for Admin class and one interface for Student class. Each interface acts like a blueprint that contains method’s signatures used by each class. One instance of Method Overriding is the Student class implementing the register method from the Student Interface. Another instance of Method Overriding is the Admin class implementing the newCourse method from the Admin Interface. In both these instances, Method Overriding is achieved by adding a method body to the method’s signatures. In fact, the Admin class exemplifies Method Overloading with courseInfo() method to show information about all courses and courseInfo(String id) method to show information about all courses with that specific id including the different sections. These Overriding and Overloading methods demonstrate Polymorphism.
Inheritance occurs when the Admin and Student class both inherit from a class named User class. The User class is an example of an Abstract class that contains four protected String variables with their getters and setters with both the Admin and Student class inherits. The protected variables demonstrate Encapsulation. There is also a Course class which contains all necessary information about each course, and all the Course objects are stored in an ArrayList which exemplifies the concept of Abstract Data Types. The User class inherits methods from the Course class which allows the Admin class and Student class to access the Course class in the driver method (called School). The Course class also contains a Serialize method to convert the Course object to stream and store it for future usage and a Deserialize method to convert the stream back to the Course object.
When the program begins, the main method will deserialize or read from the .csv file and the user will have the option to login as an admin, student or exit. If the program reads from the .csv file, tokenization is used to break the string into tokens to extract the necessary information. If it is the first time the program compiles, then the user can only log in as an admin to create a student since no students exist yet. Once the login credentials have been verified, I used a while loop to keep the user logged in until they choose to exit the program. When the user exits the program, the Course object will be serialized so that the changes are saved for future use. Whenever the user creates a student, the student will be added as a Student object into the list of students and the student information will be saved to a .txt file to validate the student login credentials in the future. When a course is full, the information about that course will also be saved to a .txt file.
